Expected behaviour at IHOP parties

The IHOP aims to be a safer space for people to express their gender, sexuality, sexual practice and relationship styles without fear of negative comment or behaviour from others.

Most people will be expresssing some genders, sexualities, sexual practices or relationship styles that are not seen as the norm in mainstream society. 

There is an implicit code of conduct and communication style that is expected at IHOP parties and this document aims to make that style explicit.

No Assumptions

It is expected that no-one make assumptions about a person's gender, sexuality, sexual practice or relationship style no matter how they look or what they are wearing. A person's clothes, hair style, pitch of voice or gestures do not necessarily denote their identity. 

How To Communicate

Default

By default please always refer to people by using gender-neutral words such as "they", "that person", "someone", "people", "their partner". If this behaviour is unfamiliar to you please take time to practice before you come to an event.

Always ask a person directly for their permission if you would like to touch them. This includes hugs, kissing, flirtacious touching, such as touching someone's leg, or affectionate touch such as touching their shoulder. Please do not be offended if someone says "no thank you".

Gender

When talking to an individual, it is common and allowed for people to ask politely which pronoun a person prefers for example "he", "she", "they", "zhe". It is a public question.

A person may further identify as a man, woman, transman, transwoman or just trans, but this is a private matter which they will talk about if they wish to. 

Trans means the person has a bodily configuration that is commonly defined by others as one particular gender, (eg male), but through their life experience they self-identify as another gender (eg female or no-gender). This identity is likely to be hard-won and misunderstood so it is very important not to mis-gender a person as it can be very upsetting. 

If in doubt, always use "they" to refer to someone. 

It is extremely impolite to ask about a person's genitals, whether they have had surgery or to otherwise talk about a trans person's body or experience in an intrusive way, no matter how well-meaning or polite you think you are being.

Relationship Style

It is common to ask what relationship style someone might be using right now. It is a public question that anyone can ask. Answers could include "monogamous", "polyamorous", "open relationship", "relationship anarchy". Feel free to ask the person what these words mean to them.

Sexuality

It is NOT common to ask a person's sexuality or details of their sexual practice. It is a private question to be asked only by friends. It is up to your discretion to judge if a person would be offended by this question or open to it, based on your current conversation.

However for the benefit of curiosity people at IHOP parties can be straight, lesbian or gay but also and more commonly define as something else: bisexual or bi, pansexual, queer, fluid, homo/heteroflexible, asexual and many other words. Many people identify as "just me". 

Sexual practice

It is also NOT common to ask about details of a person's sexual practice, but they might mention it to you. In terms of sexual practice, some people may define as vanilla, others as kinky or use other words such as S&M, breath play etc. In this context 'play' means sexual contact of some kind.



Radical Honesty

People in queer and non-monogamous safer spaces practice Radical Honesty in some form or other. This basically means always saying what you really mean. This is essential for many reasons such as: getting and giving your consent to sexual practises, being clear with multiple partners about expectations and being inclusive of people who are not neuro-typical and struggle with subtle social games. 

It is common to ask someone directly if they might be willing to kiss, touch, or have sex. The 'outside world' method of hinting, getting people drunk or gradually applying pressure verbally or physically is totally unacceptable in this space.

Radical Honesty has many benefits, such as when someone asks "how are you?" they really mean it. However, some things no longer work very well, the classic example is sarcasm. Sarcasm is saying something that you don't really mean in an exaggerated way, and when people realise you don't mean it, they find it funny. However in a space with Radical Honesty, most people are not actively thinking about whether someone really means what they say or not. They are assuming that you do mean it, and you will have to explain the joke. This does not lead to them finding it funny. It's hard to stop being sarcastic at first, but hopefully you'll find other ways to be funny.

In The Playroom

Always read the playroom rules posted on the door. You should not enter alone. Do not stare at other people. Do not try to join other people without talking about it before you entered. Do not touch anyone wthout their permission, especially if they are restrained or vulnerable in any way. Do not expect that you will go in the playroom on your first visit to the IHOP. The more people get to know you, the more likely it is that someone will want to invite you there.

A common practice is the use of sex toys between sexual partners. Some are dildos, some vibrate, some are electrical stimulators and some are other accessories such as rope for tyng people up. You may see some or all of these in the playroom.

Every person has some variety of genitals at birth, however it is possible to add to the birth set with dildos, packers and other sex toys. Many people consider these items to be their own genitals just as much as the ones available from birth. For some people this is something fun, but for others it is an essential part of their identity. Please never insult somone's genitals and treat them all with equal respect.

